---
title: Forty Hours A Week Is Plenty
---

I made Forty to help me keep track of the number of hours I was working in a
week and I hope it'll help other people balance their personal/work time.

<!-- READ-MORE -->

## Personal Time Tracker

I've been referring to Forty as a Personal Time Tracker - you track your work
hours but not for work, for yourself! For some, this logging of one's hours is
akin to homework, but I find it deeply satisfying and key to finding good
work/life balance.

## Keeping Pace

Each day I try to work 8 hours so that for the week I'll land on 40. I use this
to keep an eye on my pace. Say it's Wednesday morning and I see that my total
for the week stands at 15. That's an hour off pace so maybe I'll try to get an
extra hour in to get back on track. Or maybe I find that I'm up an hour - maybe
I'll take an extra long lunch!

Knowing where I stand is liberating for me.

## Unlimited Time Off Is Dangerous

Sure it's possible there are people out there taking advantage of unlimited time
off policies, but I've never met them! More often what I hear, and certainly
what I've experienced, is that when you have unlimited time off you don't take
enough.

Seeing this happen to me caused me to want to add time off tracking to Forty.
There's a spot each day to write in any PTO you used and then you have a place
to see what you've used year-to-date and also the total entered. This way you
can be more deliberate about how you take care of yourself. Please take more
time off!

## Make Forty A Habit

I find making habits very rewarding but not something that comes naturally to
me. If forming habits is easy for you, Forty will be easy to pick up and add
value to your life. If not, if you struggle to work new habits into your life,
then tracking your time with Forty could be a challenge - give yourself a goal
of trying it for a week. See what happens and what you learn about your time.

## Next Up

I'm not totally sure what's next for Forty, but I have lots of ideas! I've
always wanted an Apple Watch complication to show me my pace at-a-glance so that
would be sweet. The app doesn't look good at all on mobile, so making the design
of the site responsive would be huge.
